README edits (#280)
aragon/osx: Readme.md

> # Aragon OSx Protool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Aragon OSx Protocol
```

> The Aragon OSx protocol is the foundation layer of the new Aragon stack. It allows users to create, manage, and customize DAOs in a way that is lean, adaptable, and secure.

Reviewer 2: Isn't is `aragonOSx`?

Within this monorepo, you will be able to find 3 individual packages:
- [Contracts](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/contracts): the Aragon OSx protocol contracts.
- [Subgraph](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/subgraph): containing all code generating our subgraph and event indexing.
- [Contract-ethers](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/contracts-ethers): containing the connection between the ethers package and our contracts.

For more information on the individual packages, please read the respective `README.md`.

## Contributing

We'd love to hear what you think! If you want to build this with us, please find a detailed contribution guide in the `CONTRIBUTION_GUIDE.md` [file here](https://github.com/aragon/osx/blob/develop/CONTRIBUTION_GUIDE.md).

## Setup

> Start by running `yarn install` in the root in your terminal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Start by running `yarn install` in the project root in your terminal.
```

### Dependencies

Since the repo is set up as yarn workspace, all the linking is done automatically.

## How the Aragon OSx protocol works

> To review the contracts powering the Aragon OSx protocol, feel free to head to `packages/contracts`.

Reviewer 2: Same as above

Author: Discord on this: https://discord.com/channels/672466989217873929/1077542094224236594/1078336009546252350

The Aragon OSx protocol architecture is composed of two key sections:

- __Core contracts__: details the functionalities all DAOs will have. It is composed of mostly 3 sections:
    - **DAO treasury:** the DAO’s main contract and vault.
    - **Permission manager**: manages permissions within the DAO to execute actions.

>     - **Plugin manager**: manages installed plugins within the DAO.

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by `Plugin manager`?
The folder `packages/contracts/src/core/plugin` contains various helpers and base contracts for plugin development

Reviewer 2: @Michael-A-Heuer FYI

Reviewer: I also find this a bit confusing.

The Aragon OSx protocol consists of the core and framework contracts.
The core contracts are the primitives the end-user interacts with
- The DAO contract
- Plugin templates to build upon
- Permissions to govern the interactions between the plugins, DAOs, but also other 

The Aragon OSx framework contracts that run the protocol and streamline the processes of
- DAO creation and 
- plugin management

- __Framework contracts__: in charge of creating and registering each deployed DAO or plugin. It contains:
    - **DAO and Plugin Factories**: creates DAOs or plugins.
    - **DAO and Plugin Registries**: registers into our protocol those DAOs or plugins.
    - **Plugin Processor:** installs and uninstalls plugins into DAOs.

Additionally to those two sections, we have developed several plugins DAOs can easily install upon creation. These are:

> - __Token Voting plugin__: enabling voting through token majority as a governance mechanism for DAOs
> - __Multisig plugin__: enabling assets to be transacted based on approval from members.
> - __Admin plugin__: enabling one account to have god-like access to the DAO.
> - __Addresslist Voting plugin__: a set of pre-selected addresses are able to vote within a DAO.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- __Token Voting plugin__: enabling token holders to vote yes, no or abstain on incoming DAO proposals
- __Multisig plugin__: enabling DAO governance based on approval from a pre-defined members list.
- __Addresslist Voting plugin__: enabling a pre-defined set of addresses to vote yes, no or abstain in a "one person, one vote" mode
- __Admin plugin__: enabling full access to an account needing to perform initial maintenance tasks without unnecessary overhead
```

Let's dive into more detail on each of these sections.

### Core Contracts

> The *Core Contracts* describe how every DAO generated in the Aragon OSx protocol will be set up. It is extremely lean and by design and constitutes the most critical aspects of our architecture.

Reviewer 2: aragonOSx?

Author: Discord: https://discord.com/channels/672466989217873929/1077542094224236594/1078336009546252350

In a nutshell, each DAO is composed of 3 interconnecting components:

> 1. **The DAO treasury:** The DAO contract is where the **core functionality** of the DAO lies. It is the contract in charge of:

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't say "DAO treasury". It's simply the "DAO contract", which includes everything

    - Representing the identity of the DAO (ENS name, logo, description, other metadata)
    - Holding and managing the treasury
    - Executing arbitrary actions to:
        - transfer assets
        - call its own functions
        - call functions in external contracts

>     - Providing general technical utilities (signature validation, callback handling)

Reviewer 3: signature validation is handled by the `signatureValidator` that can be set in the DAO but not the DAO itself

2. **The Permission Manager:** The permission manager is an integral part of any DAO and the center of our protocol architecture. It **manages permissions for the DAO** by specifying which addresses have permission to call distinct functions on contracts associated with your DAO.

> 3. **Plugin Manager**: Any custom functionality can be added or removed through plugins, allowing you to **fully customize your DAO**. Some examples of plugins DAOs could install are:

Reviewer 3: Just for my clarification: the plugin manager is the PluginSetupProcessor that handles the preparation and installation of a plugin?

Reviewer 2: FYI: the PSP would be part of the framework, not of the DAO scope. DAO's have an internal permission database, but plugins are outside such a scope.

Author: Reworded it! Thanksssss

    - Governance (e.g., token voting, one-person one-vote)
    - Asset management (e.g., ERC-20 or NFT minting, token streaming, DeFi)
    - Membership (governing budget allowances, gating access, curating a member list)

The following graphic shows how an exemplary DAO setup, where the

![An examplary DAO setup](https://devs.aragon.org/assets/images/dao-plugin.drawio-7086d0911d25218097dae94665b1a7b1.svg)

> An examplary DAO setup showing interactions between the three core contract pieces triggered by different user groups: The `DAO` and `PermissionManager` contract in blue and red, respectively, as well as two `Plugin` contracts in green. Function calls are visualized as black arrows and require permission checks (red, dashed arrow). In this example, the permission manager determines whether the token voting plugin can execute actions on the DAO, a member can change its settings, or if an DeFi-related plugin is allowed to invest in a certain, external contract.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify, the DAO and the PermissionManager are shipped as one contract that does both. This might lead to confusion, I would emphasize that they are the 2 components within the DAO contract

### Framework Contracts

> In contrast, the *Framework Contracts* are in charge of creating and registering DAOs and plugins. Additionally, it’s what holds the plugin installer to install or uninstall plugins into DAOs.

Reviewer 2: "plugin installer" => the plugin setup processor (install, update, uninstall)

- __Factories and Registries__
    - **The DAO Factory**: In charge of deploying instances of a new DAO based on the parameters given, including which plugins to install and additional metadata the DAO has (like a name, description, etc).
    - **The DAO Registry**: In charge of registering DAOs into our protocol so we can easily access all DAO instances within our protocol. It is also in charge of giving DAOs subdomains for easier access.

>     - **The Plugin Repo Factory**: A `PluginRepo` is the repository of versions for a given plugin. The Plugin Repo Factory contract creates `PluginRepo` instances so that plugins can update their contract versioning without complexity in a semantic way similar to the App Store.

Reviewer 2: I would use "Plugin factory"

>     - **The Plugin Repo Registry**: In charge of registering the `PluginRepo` instances so that we easily access all protocol plugins.

Reviewer 2: I would simply call it "plugin registry". It's true that it contains pluginRepo's but might confuse people

Author: Ok - calling these `Plugin Registry` and `Plugin Factory`, but still explaining the `PluginRepo` I think is important because otherwise the dev will go into the folders and not understand what they are/why they're there.

> - __Plugin Processor__: installs and uninstalls plugins into DAOs based on the instructions provided by the plugin setup.

Reviewer 2: Plugin Setup Processor

For a more detailed description of each of these components, please visit our [Developer Portal](https://devs.aragon.org).

### Plugins

Each plugin consists of two key components:

- __The Plugin Logic__: contains the logic for each plugin; the main functionality the plugin extends for the DAO. Can be linked to other helper contracts if needed.

> - __The Plugin Setup__: contains the installation, uninstallation, and upgrade instructions for a plugin into a DAO.

Reviewer 2: We can mention it as a kind of "manager" to handle these 3 operations

You can find all plugins built by the Aragon team [here](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/contracts/src/plugins).

### Connection between OSx, subgraph, and ethers.js packages

> The [Aragon OSx contracts](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/contracts) emits events that get indexed within our `subgraph`. This `subgraph`, whose [source code can be found here](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/subgraph), is what then fuels the [Aragon SDK](https://github.com/aragon/sdk).

Reviewer 2: `aragonOSx` and `aragonSDK`

Author: Resolved in Discord :) https://discord.com/channels/672466989217873929/1077542094224236594/1078336009546252350

> The [contract-ethers] package is the NPM package that provides `ethers.js` wrappers to use the [Aragon OSx contracts](https://github.com/aragon/osx/tree/develop/packages/contracts).

Reviewer 2: The `[contract-ethers]` link may point to a non-existing page

Reviewer 2: `aragonOSx`

## Tests

> You can find some [test DAOs here](https://github.com/aragon/osx/blob/develop/dummy_daos.json), if you’re looking to get started with testing.

Reviewer 2: How may external people use test DAO's if they don't hold permissions on them?

Author: Yeeeah, I think that's a fair point. I was thinking that it could simply give them an idea of what to expect when a DAO was created if they wanted to checkout the address on goerli or try it within the app, or something. I think they serve as examples, more so than anything else - but if you feel like they don't add any value, happy to remove them!

In a nutshell, each DAO is composed of 3 interconnecting components:

1. **The DAO contract:** The DAO contract is where the **core functionality** of the DAO lies. It is the contract in charge of:
    - Representing the identity of the DAO (ENS name, logo, description, other metadata)
    - Holding and managing the treasury assets
    - Executing arbitrary actions to:
        - transfer assets
        - call its own functions
        - call functions in external contracts

>     - Providing general technical utilities like callback handling and others

Reviewer 2: We may expand a bit here. We have the DAO metadata, the DAO URI (for DAO Star One backend-driven data), we have signature validation, etc

> 2. **Permissions:** Permissions are an integral part of any DAO and the center of our protocol architecture. The Permissions manager **manages permissions for the DAO** by specifying which addresses have permission to call distinct functions on contracts associated with your DAO. This Permissions manager lives inside the DAO contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Permissions:** They are an integral part of any DAO and the center of our protocol architecture. The Permission manager **manages permissions for the DAO** by specifying which addresses hold a specific permission ID, needed to call certain functions on contracts associated with your DAO. The Permission manager lives inside the DAO contract.
```

> 3. **Plugins**: Any custom functionality can be aded or removed through plugins, allowing you to **fully customize your DAO**. You'll find some base templates of plugins within the `plugins` folder of the *Core Contracts*. Some examples of plugins that DAOs could install are:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. **Plugins**: Any custom functionality can be added or removed through plugins, allowing you to **fully customize your DAO**. You'll find some base templates of plugins within the `plugins` folder of the *Core Contracts*. Some examples of plugins that DAOs could install are:
```

![An examplary DAO setup](https://devs.aragon.org/assets/images/dao-plugin.drawio-7086d0911d25218097dae94665b1a7b1.svg)

> An examplary DAO setup showing interactions between the three core contract pieces triggered by different user groups: The `DAO` and `PermissionManager` contract in blue and red, respectively, as well as two `Plugin` contracts in green. Bear in mind, the `DAO` and `Permission Manager` components both coexist within the same `DAO` contract. Function calls are visualized as black arrows and require permission checks (red, dashed arrow). In this example, the permission manager determines whether the token voting plugin can execute actions on the DAO, a member can change its settings, or if an DeFi-related plugin is allowed to invest in a certain, external contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An examplary DAO setup showing interactions between the three core contract pieces triggered by different user groups: The `DAO` and `PermissionManager` contract in blue and red, respectively, as well as two `Plugin` contracts in green. Bear in mind, the `DAO` and `Permission Manager` components both coexist within the same `DAO` contract. Function calls are visualized as black arrows and require the caller to hold a certain permission (red, dashed arrow). In this example, the permission manager determines whether the token voting plugin can execute actions on the DAO, a member can change its settings, or if an DeFi-related plugin is allowed to invest in a certain, external contract.
```

### Framework Contracts

> In contrast, the *Framework Contracts* are in charge of creating and registering DAOs and plugins. Additionally, these contracts contain the `PluginSetupProcessor` which installs, uninstalls, and updates plugins into DAOs upon request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In contrast, the *Framework Contracts* are in charge of creating an open ecosystem around DAOs and plugins. Starting with their respective registries and factories, the framework also includes the `PluginSetupProcessor`, designed to handle plugin installs, uninstalls, and updates upon a DAO's request.
```

- __Factories and Registries__
    - **The DAO Factory**: In charge of deploying instances of a new DAO based on the parameters given, including which plugins to install and additional metadata the DAO has (like a name, description, etc).
    - **The DAO Registry**: In charge of registering DAOs into our protocol so plugins can easily access all DAO instances within our protocol. It is also in charge of giving DAOs subdomains for easier access.
    - **The Plugin Factory**: A `PluginRepo` is the repository of versions for a given plugin. The `PluginRepoFactory` contract creates a `PluginRepo` instance for each plugin, so that plugins can update their versioning without complexity in a semantic way similar to the App Store.
    - **The Plugin Registry**: In charge of registering the `PluginRepo` addresses into our protocol so that DAOs can access all plugins published in the protocol.

> - __Plugin Setup Processor__: The processor is the manager for plugins. It installs, uninstalls, and upgrades plugins for DAOs based on the instructions provided by the plugin setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- __Plugin Setup Processor__: The processor is the manager for plugins. It installs, uninstalls, and upgrades plugins for DAOs based on the instructions provided by the plugin's setup contract.
```
